.TH BASHODORO 1 "April 2025" "v1.0" "Bashodoro - Terminal Pomodoro Timer"
.SH NAME
bashodoro \- Terminal-based productivity timer implementing the Pomodoro Technique
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bashodoro
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Bashodoro
is a Bash-based, highly configurable implementation of the Pomodoro Technique, aimed at improving productivity through focused work sessions and structured breaks, all within a lightweight terminal interface.
The program automates the classic Pomodoro methodology: 25-minute work sessions, 5-minute short breaks, and a 15–30-minute long break after four consecutive sessions.

.SH FEATURES
.IP \[bu] 2
Configurable work and break durations
.IP \[bu]
Real-time countdown and progress tracking
.IP \[bu]
Multi-platform desktop notifications
.IP \[bu]
Audible alerts (optional)
.IP \[bu]
Motivational quotes and jokes during breaks
.IP \[bu]
Detailed session statistics and productivity reports
.IP \[bu]
Minimalistic, distraction-free interface

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -m ", " --manual
Start in manual mode (requires keypress to begin each session).
.TP
.BR -s ", " --stats
Display detailed productivity statistics from session logs and exit.
.TP
.BR -c ", " --config
Display current configuration settings and exit.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Display a brief help message and exit.
.TP
.BR -w " " [minutes]
Set a custom work session duration (in minutes) for this run.
Example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ bashodoro -w 50
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR -sb " " [minutes]
Set a custom short break duration (in minutes) for this run.
Example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ bashodoro -sb 10
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR -lb " " [minutes]
Set a custom long break duration (in minutes) for this run.
Example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ bashodoro -lb 30
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BR -ws " " [count]
Set the number of work sessions before a long break (default: 4).
Example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ bashodoro -ws 5
.fi
.RE

.SH INTERACTIVE CONTROLS
During operation:
.TP
.B p
Pause the current session.
.TP
.B r
Resume a paused session.
.TP
.B q
Quit the program.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.bashodoro/config/settings.conf
Main configuration file (timer durations, notification settings, sound preferences).
.TP
.I ~/.bashodoro/data/jokes.txt
Custom jokes for break sessions (one joke per line).
.TP
.I ~/.bashodoro/data/quotes.txt
Inspirational quotes ("quote" - author format).
.TP
.I ~/.bashodoro/logs/bashodoro.log
Session history, statistics, and productivity logs.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TERM
Specifies the terminal type for formatting and display.
.TP
.B DISPLAY
Specifies the X11 display for GUI notifications (Linux/X11).

.SH INSTALLATION
Clone the repository and install:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ git clone https://github.com/a-sad-dan/bashodoro.git
$ cd bashodoro
$ sudo ./install.sh
.fi
.RE
To uninstall:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sudo ./uninstall.sh
.fi
.RE

.SH USAGE
Start a standard Pomodoro session:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ bashodoro
.fi
.RE

View Bashodoro statistics:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ bashodoro -s
.fi
.RE

Start in manual session mode:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ bashodoro -m
.fi
.RE

.SH LOGS
Session logs are stored per user at:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$HOME/.bashodoro/logs/bashodoro.log
.fi
.RE

To view logs:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ cat $HOME/.bashodoro/logs/bashodoro.log
.fi
.RE

To clear logs:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ > $HOME/.bashodoro/logs/bashodoro.log
.fi
.RE

Please report bugs at:
<https://github.com/a-sad-dan/bashodoro/issues>

.SH AUTHOR
a.sad.dan <danishasad91@gmail.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2025
Released under the MIT License.
